





                                                              L. Brooks
Request for Comments:                                                
Obsoletes:                                                           
Category: Standards Track                                            
                                                                     
                                                                     
                                                                     
                                                                     
                                                                     
                                                                     
                                                                     
                                                                     
                                                                     
                                                                     
                                                           Febuary 2016


                Distributed Hypertext Transfer Protocol

Status of this Memo

   This document specifies an Internet standards track protocol for the
   Internet community, and requests discussion and suggestions for
   improvements.  Please refer to the current edition of the "Internet
   Official Protocol Standards" (STD 1) for the standardization state
   and status of this protocol.  Distribution of this memo is unlimited.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (C) Luke Brooks (2016).  All Rights Reserved.

Abstract

   Distributed HTTP is a form of HTTP mediated by caching proxies
   that speak a common protocol to one another. This is
   implemented through the relationships between domains, resources
   and revisions.

   Instances of compatible proxies respect a routing topology based
   on Kademlia with free node ID generation seeded by the nodes' IP
   address, port number and public RSA key.

   All revisions objects have an associated SHA1
   hash associated with them to be used as their identifier.
   
   Stored resources may optionally be made public where their original
   URL is SHA1 hashed and used as a Kademlia node ID. The corresponding
   node is then searched for and informed that you are willing and able
   to serve data corresponding to the content hash for the resource
   in question.
   
   Distributed trust computation is discussed further on.


Brooks, et al.              Standards Track                     [Page 1]

RFC 2616                        HTTP/1.1                    Febuary 2016

   1   Introduction ...................................................7
   2   Routing Topology ...............................................7
   3   Collaborative Editing ..........................................7
   4   Distributed Trust ..............................................7
   5   Attribution and Licensing ......................................7

Table of Contents


1 Introduction

1.1 Purpose

   Distributed HTTP is set of fundamental principles for peer-to-peer
   networks sharing Hyptertext resources amongst nodes engaging in
   shared overlay network namespaces, making HTTP resistant to server
   downtime, domain name forfeiture and optionally, dedicated servers.

1.2 Requirements

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
   document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 [34].

   An implementation is not compliant if it fails to satisfy one or more
   of the MUST or REQUIRED level requirements for the protocols it
   implements. An implementation that satisfies all the MUST or REQUIRED
   level and all the SHOULD level requirements for its protocols is said
   to be "unconditionally compliant"; one that satisfies all the MUST
   level requirements but not all the SHOULD level requirements for its
   protocols is said to be "conditionally compliant."

1.3 Terminology

   This specification uses a number of terms to refer to the roles
   played by participants in, and objects of, Distributed HTTP networks.

   user agent
      An instance of a distributed HTTP proxy that implements this
      protocol.

   overlay network
      A routing table containing references to known peer nodes.

   message
      The basic unit of distributed HTTP communication which may consist
      of references to known neighbour peer nodes in order to passively
      reinforce the routing topology.

   append
      APPEND procedure calls use the SHA1 hash of a URL or piece of
      content and use them as a node ID, contact the peer in question
      or neighbouring peers and storing appending a reference to
      ourselves indicating we will serve the data that corresponds to
      the given content hash.

   find
      FIND procedure calls indicate lookups for a given SHA1 hash by
      using it as a node ID and asking peer 

